.TH CHKFTPD 8l "26 September r
.SH NAME
.B chkftpd
- checks remote ftpd logs for dropped links and refused ports, if problems
are found the scripts raises alerts
and starts 
.B tcpdump
on the remote host.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchkftpd\fR [\fB-c\fI <client host>\fR] [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-e\fI <mail rcpt>\fR]
[\fB-l\fR] [\fB-r \fI<runtime(secs)\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-T \fI<sms number>\fR]
[\fB-v\fR] \fI<hostname>\fR | \fB-h\fR
.b\fRr
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B chkftpd
is a Bourne shell script which should work equally well on all versions of UNIX,
Mac OSX and Linux.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chkftpd
checks the ftpd logs on a remote host. If problems are found then the
systems operators are notified by e-mail and optionally by SMS text message.
.B Tcpdump
is started on the remote host and attempts to record relevant network
packets for later analysis.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
\fB-c \fI<client host>\fR
Use the ftp \fIclient host\fRname or IP to filter packets collected by 
.B tcpdump .
.TP
.B -d 
Switch to debug mode. 
.TP
\fB-e \fI<e-mail address>\fR
Use \fIemail address\fR for alerts in preference to the default
hard coded in the script.
.TP
.B -h
if used on its own the manual page is invoked. Using 
.B -h
in combination with other options is an error. The command syntax is 
printed to 
.I standard error
and the script terminates.
.TP
.B -l
Use the system logging facility to log the start of
.B chkftpd
and again to log the identification of a problem.
.TP
.B "-r #"
Set the duration, in seconds for which 
.B tcpdump
will run. The default value is 120 seconds.
.TP
.B -t 
Put 
.B chkftpd
in test mode. Alerts will be sent regardless of whether or not problems are
detected.
.TP
\fB-T \fI<phone number>\fR
Send SMS text alerts to \fIphone number\fI
.TP
.B -v
Set verbose mode. Ordinarily 
.B chkftpd
operates silently unless problems are detected. In 
.I verbose
mode 
.B chkftpd
reports on every significant action.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ft CW
chkftpd -c 10.0.0.3 -r 300 -T 01159999999 -e user@addr.com
.ft R
.fi
.LP
Check the ftpd logs on host qsl. If problems are detected notify 
user@addr.com, text 0115 599 9999 and run tcpdump for 5 
minutes filtering for packets to or from 10.0.0.3.

.SH BUGS
The script is quite crude having been developed to address problems experienced
by a City Linux client running CentOS servers at 1and1 in Germany. It does
depend on very specific file and remote access permissions. Particularly it
expects that where root permission is required 
.B sudo
will be used. With judicious use of the 
.I debug
and
.I verbose 
modes, permission and configuration problems should be relatively easy to 
resolve.

Currently
.B chkftpd
is looking for dropped links and refused PORTS, it also expects to receive
the symbolic name or ip of the ftp client host involved and passes this to
.B tcpdump .
If the 
.B -c
option is not used the Behaviour is uncertain.


.SH SEE ALSO
.IR chkdf ,
.IR chkfw ,
.IR clean ,
.IR secscan .
.SH AUTHOR
Clifford W Fulford, City Linux. Contact fulford@fulford.net or +44 (0)709 229 5385.
.SH HISTORY
